Version 0

"MoD2 Path Editor" is an experimental tool that accompanies Marbles of Darkness 2, useful for modding the game. Its purpose is to make path creation easier.

The majority of the window is used to display the game room and the path. The default visible game area is visualized with a grey grid. In GameMaker, and therefore MoD, paths are made out of points it follows through in smooth curves.

The path is visualised by a smooth curve just like it would be in-game. Each point is marked with a circle outline. The parts of the paths that are above the tunnel image have a blue colour, the parts going under the tunnel are red. The currently selected point has a green outline. There is a grey arrow going from each point to the next to show the order of the points and the direction.

By clicking on an empty spot, you can add a point to the path that snaps to the grid. You may place points outside the visible grid, just know that then the path would go out of the screen in-game. By clicking on an existing point, you can drag it around and change its position. It would still snap to the grid lines. By pressing the right mouse button and dragging, you can move the view around. Use the scroll wheel on your mouse to zoom in and out. When placing the points, keep in mind that some of the in-game space is likely used for HUD and the shooter.

On the right side of the window there is a menu with multiple buttons, each with their own actions.
Load path - Opens up the file manager you can use to find and load existing path files. Path files are supposed to be located at /assets/paths/ in the game files.
Save path - Saves your current path into a text file that can be loaded into MoD 2. It again opens the file manager for you to locate the location where it should be saved to. You cannot save an empty path, meaning it has to have at least 2 points in different coordinates to be valid.
Background - Opens the file manager to load a PNG image to be used as a background in the editor.
Delete - Removes the selected point.
Insert - Adds a point in the middle of the selected point and the previous one that snaps to the grid as well. Cannot be used on the starting point.
Depth - Toggles whether the selected point would be on top of or below the tunnel cutout. Its state is also written out on the button. Again, points above are blue in the editor the ones below are red.
Grid - This displays the gap between the grid lines the points snap to. Clicking on it lets you change the value by typing the number on your keyboard. The maximum allowed gap is 999.999.999 pixels.
Preview - Toggles between the default edit mode and preview mode. While in preview mode, the path is displayed in all white and with the thickness of the orbs to really show how it would appear in-game. The grid (except the border), path lines, points and statistics are not displayed when in preview mode.
Reset view - Resets the editor view to the default position and zoom.
Statistics - When turned on, displays info about the path in the top left corner. This includes the amount of points the path has, the length of the path, the selected point, whether it is being dragged and the X and Y coordinates of the selected point.

Keyboard shortcuts
Delete - Removes the selected point, just like the "Delete" button on the menu.
Insert - Adds a point between the selected point and the previous one, just like the "Insert" button on the menu.
Page Up, Page Down - Select the next or previous point.
Home - Selects the first point of the path.
End - Selects the last point of the path.
F3 - Toggle Statistics.
Arrow keys - Move the selected point by one grid line in the respective direction.
O - Load a path file.
S - Save the path into a file.
C - Copy path data to the clipboard. It can then be pasted into a text file in case the file manager cannot be used.

