version 1.2

Startup improvements. Cleaned up the code, unified loading images. 

Display loading steps. New section in text config for loading messages.

Set everything related to the startup screen immediately to prevent things jumping around.

In image config, not setting frame count for an orb sprite defaults to 1.

Completely reworked how orbs are stored in lists.
This makes it much easier to manage and less prone to odd crashes.

However, something about the new orb movement logic made cascades push the orbs further back,
so I specifically had to make the knockback lighter than intended. I don't know what this is about.

Modding fixes - correct launch speed and applied text color everywhere.
Menu backgrounds are also used correctly.

Removed old progress bar sprite from the files.
Fixed level HUD elements positioning.

New configuration options: knockback strength, powerup drops and warning light rotation.

Now supporting custom orb shadows.
Window display, including the startup screen, resized to 1280x720. Content size remains the same.

New channel link in credits.

Fixed error messaging when loading faulty modding configuration,
preventing additional GameMaker crash reports from popping up.

Added an option to have powerups fall to the shooter like in Luxor.

Pads get sucked into the hole on a fail like in MoD 1.

If an orb segment is knocked off screen entirely and no more cascades are happening there,
it is quickly brought back into game field.

Mid-level saving is improved to use the new orb listing.
It also keeps track of Accuracy powerup duration.

Splash screen no longer used at startup.

For mobile and touchscreen compatibility, clicking on the shooter swaps the orb.

Skiplevel cheat no longer goes beyond the adventure campaign, avoiding crashes.
Still, don't try to start any bonus levels from there.

Ported the game to Android. Button clicking and orb shooting better adapted to touchscreens.
Also enhanced the instructions to also explain touchscreen play.

Instructions are displayed when starting a game for the first time. Added an option to skip it on
following runs. Modified instructions layout and option texts accordingly.

Added a FPS debug overlay.

Shot orbs still dropping onto the path are also cleared in matches.

Slight improvements to readme and modding help, also documenting the new changes.

Changed how the intro animation works, though it should look the same.
Improved layering in the game field.

Actually enforced setting the title, background and first path to each map.

Fixed game crashing when loading an invalid Adventure save after reducing levels.
The player is notified of it and given the option to start a new game.

Total time played format changed a little to make it clearer it's hours-minutes.

Custom graphics in Windows installer.


Todo:
fix strong orb knockback

possibly:
allow more paths and pads
not hit orbs off-screen
(?)